---
layout: post
title: "Passages"
excerpt: "My review of Passages"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 4/5

Tomas (Franz Rogowski) is on a French film set. He directs an actor to walk downstairs. He insists the actor do it again and again until it's flawless.

At the after-party, Martin (Ben Whishaw), Tomas's husband, is having an awful time. He leaves, so Tomas and Agathe (Adèle Exarchopoulos) dance together.
<blockquote><i>Don't think too much. It's okay.</i></blockquote>Tomas follows Agathe to a small get-together. Everyone sits outside, leaving Tomas and Agathe alone. They go to her bedroom and have sex.

The following day, Tomas bikes home. He tells Martin he had sex with a woman. 

<blockquote><i>I felt something I hadn't felt in a very long time. It was exciting. It was something different.</i></blockquote>Martin tries to listen but can't bear it, stepping away.

Tomas tries to pack, but Martin assures him it's fine and that they will overcome it.

Tomas sees Agathe in the editing room. The others go to have lunch. Tomas and Agathe have sex again.

Later, Martin initiates sex with Tomas, but Tomas turns away. The following morning, Tomas questions Martin's love, telling Martin that he should be happy for Tomas.

Agathe and Tomas spend another night together. Tomas confesses he loves her.

Tomas' narcissism prevents him from seeing the effects of his actions. He leaves others to deal with the outcome while he maintains a sense of control.

Martin has been a passive supporter of Tomas and used to have his wishes denied. Tomas's coming and going creates a confusing and painful lack of control in his life.

Agathe is the most emotionally secure. She thinks she has Tomas, but Tomas is Tina Belcher at the Sadie Hawkins dance — he doesn't want to choose. Agathe knows she will disappear as long as Martin is in the picture.

The film is not a condemnation or endorsement of anyone's choices — it presents a particular relationship dynamic and watches how sex controls it.

Everyone is incredible in this! Their performances are complicated and understandable.

I was screaming, cringing, and cheering throughout this movie. What a damn ride.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/5hMJSV)
