---
layout: review
title: "The Wiz (1978)"
excerpt: "My review of The Wiz (1978)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/3XAZ9l
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

I was dreading watching this, because I haven’t heard good things. But I thought I should see for myself

The cinematography is pretty uninspired and static, focused on the scale of the sets more than interacting with any of the musical numbers. This works better later on when the sets get bigger/more intricate

The singing is of course fantastic, but these songs roll right off of me. This is based on a broadway musical, right? Why isn’t that cast in this? Hiring musicians to act in lead parts is a weird choice

Michael Jackson brings the music alive better than any of the other performers. Ted Ross as the lion is the most theatrical and fun, he hams it up and brings some much-needed energy

Overall, this is totally fine. It’s obviously a kid’s movie, and I’m not the target demographic. I’m glad it exists for the people who love it, I just won’t be joining them

Stray thoughts:
* I don’t get why Aunt Em wants Dorothy to teach high school instead of elementary school. Like, is it just because the high school is in a different part of town?

*I like the graffiti coming alive, that’s a fun idea

* RIP Nipsey Hussle, who will forever make me misspeak when bringing up Nipsey Russell

* The wicked witch‘a henchmen taking off their clothes once they’re freed… it’s pretty horny, which feels odd in a kids movie

* The floating star babies are cute