---
layout: review
title: "Bad Guy (2001)"
excerpt: "My review of Bad Guy (2001)"
rating: "2.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/3Zy1eT
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

A deeply twisted attempt to invert the trope of “turn a prostitute into a proper woman”

Though this is definitely the story of one man systematically ruining a woman’s life in order to get her to fall for him, and not one “no” by her is ever heeded, I think the director wants to evaluate morality on a more nuanced scale. Or he just wants to manipulate you into cheering for horrible people. How successful it is, I’m not really sure

It’s hard to forget the opening scene where he forces himself on her and kisses her right in front of her boyfriend. And he tricks her into prostitution. So like… why am I supposed to like this guy by the end? Because he doesn’t let johns beat her up too badly?

About halfway through, she encounters a doppelgänger who tears up a photo and drowns herself in the ocean. She picks up the pieces and finds all but the faces: the doppelgänger and a boyfriend — her unfulfilled/stolen desire

I don’t recommend this. It is a well-crafted film from a technical standpoint, but I feel like I am missing cultural or metatextual context that might help me like this more (or hate it more?)

<b>Stray thoughts</b>
* Why the hell was that guy carrying around $10,000 in his wallet??
* Why the hell did she take the wallet??
* “I feel responsible for making you like this…” huh, you think? 🤔