---
layout: post
title: "Rosetta"
excerpt: "My review of Rosetta"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 4/5

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pXW6q/detail" title="Criterion Challenge 2023 ">Criterion Challenge 2023 </a>| 2/52 | Made in Belgium</b>

Rosetta, a teen living on a campground with her alcoholic mother, loses a trial assignment job after the company decides not to hire her full time. She lashes out and attacks her boss. Security chases her down and evicts her from the premises.

Back home, Mom is drinking again. She’s cooking some donated food, but Rosetta throws it out, not willing to accept handouts.

She mends clothes to sell, keeps fish traps, and never stops looking for another job. She throws her friend under the bus who tries to make money under the table, ratting him out to his boss to get his job.

She’s cutthroat, but tries to be honest in all of her dealings. Her mother’s reliance on others for charity is something she wants to avoid. She has a firm determination to show that she can achieve her goals without relying on anyone else.

If she wasn’t so stubborn, she might realize she didn’t have to go alone. Accepting help is crucial for many of us.

The film never moralizes about whether Rosetta is doing the right thing, or anyone else. It’s one of those stories where we watch the events as they unfold and their consequences.

Since this movie came out, filmmakers have tortured this formula in the name of Oscar noms. Making that film is still possible. For example, To Leslie works. It’s just more common.

The camera does everything it can to keep up with Rosetta, staying as tight as possible on her. She’ll slam doors in its face — she ducks behind walls — she runs into the woods. It always catches up with her. Yet another stylistic choice that has become widespread in recent years.

Imagine living in Belgium with waffle stands everywhere!

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/55erqN)
