---
layout: review
title: "Quiz Lady (2023)"
excerpt: "My review of Quiz Lady (2023)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5jzE7d
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

As a child, Annie watched <i>Can't Stop the Quiz</i> while her parents argued, and her sister Jenny auditioned for reality shows.

Adult Annie (Awkwafina) still watches <i>Can't Stop the Quiz</i> with the same host, Terry McTeer (Will Ferrell). Ron (Jason Schwartzman) keeps winning, and everyone hates him.

Annie gets a call that her mother is missing from her retirement home. They also called Annie's sister, Jenny (Sandra Oh), who she hasn't seen in 20 years. Mom ran away to Macao with her previously unknown boyfriend, Jeff.

Jenny is living out of her car and asks to live with Annie. Jenny realizes Annie knows everything on the quiz show and tells her to go on the show, but Annie is too shy.

Jenny decides to be a life coach. She secretly films Annie answering questions while watching the quiz show and posts it online. The video goes viral.

Mom owes the Tongs $80 grand, so they steal her dog, Mr. Linguini, until Annie and Jenny pay them off.

Jenny sees this as synergy and kidnaps Ann to take her to an audition so they can win the money to get Mr. Linguini back.

Oh's performance is broad but keeps the energy up when the story lags.

Awkwafina is solid as a heel. I'm glad she gets to let loose during the drug scene.

Mr. Linguini is God's perfect angel.

This movie isn't a laugh riot, but the good-natured humor and sweet story are enjoyable.

#### Stray Thoughts

- I think my brother recommended this to me.
- Her terrible neighbor has the house number 666.
- Director Jessica Yu has a broad filmography, so I've incidentally seen her Henry Darger doc and the Maria Bamford special she directed.
- Happy to see Tony Hale. They labor his Ben Franklin jokes, but his performance is solid.
- Maria Bamford is great as the lowest-scoring contestant in the quiz show's history.
- Fuck yeah, CHAI is on the soundtrack.
- Terry McTeer loving <i>Mighty Ducks 2</i> got me.
- RIP Paul Reubens :(
