---
layout: review
title: "Harakiri (1962)"
excerpt: "My review of Harakiri (1962)"
rating: "4.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5h9q6Z
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
tags: [criterion-channel, criterion, criterion-challenge-2023, cc2023, samurai]
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pXW6q" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Criterion Challenge 2023</a> | 34/52 | Starring Tatsuya Nakadai</b>

<i>Edo, May 13, 1630</i>

A disheveled man appears at the Iyi Clan’s gates. He was a retainer for the former Fukushima Clan in Hiroshima.

His name is Hanshiro Tsugumo.

After the fall of his clan, Tsugumo moved to Edo to seek a new occupation, but peaceful times made that difficult. Rather than live in poverty, he wishes to die honorably by harakiri and to use their forecourt.

The clan leader questions his motives. Another ronin with the same story and request arrived earlier this year. His name was Motome Chijiwa. Tsugumo doesn’t know him. According to the Iyi Clan, the man came to extort them.

The clan debated on what to do. The clans put Chijiwa through a rigamarole to determine his true motive. He would commit harakiri regardless of any offers if he wanted to atone. Through their questioning, they decide he did not intend to commit harakiri, so they force him to do it.

Worse, Chijiwa’s sword is bamboo, so it will not cut. He keeps stabbing, drawing blood. He has to fall onto the sword to get it into his stomach.

Tsugumo insists on carrying forward. He requests a specific retainer, but that retainer is out sick. Tsugumo insists he would like it to be him if possible. So, while they wait, Tsugumo tells them about himself.

As Tsugumo names more alternates, all alternates claim illness.

The film calls into question what samurai honor entails and what of it is a mere facade.

The blood and makeup effects are effective, making for a grueling experience when anyone draws blood.

The movie is quiet and slow and progresses in logical jumps. While I appreciate the structure, it’s also dry and flat for most of its runtime.

Everything comes together in the last thirty minutes, and it stops being anime arguing. The cinematography is dramatic and stylish, with Dutch angles for days. I won’t say more and spoil it.

Overall, it’s a great movie. I would enjoy it more if I were a Shonen fan. This film is one of the biggest influences on that style.
