---
layout: review
title: "Blue Jean (2022)"
excerpt: "My review of Blue Jean (2022)"
rating: "4.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/4Iwqpj
mst3k: 
rifftrax: 
category: movie_review

---

<b>Newcastle, 1988, when Margaret Thatcher's government first proposed Section 28 legislation</b>

Jean (Rosy McEwen) is a PE teacher at a secondary school. There, and with her family, she is closeted. Her only outlet is a gay bar she regulars with friends and her girlfriend Viv (Kerrie Hayes)

A new student named Lois (Lucy Halliday) starts at Jean's school. Later, she spots Lois at the same gay bar she frequents. Terrified, she tries to manage her life to avoid suspicion, fearing that the school discovering her being a lesbian may be the end of her teaching career for good

Jean exemplifies the "keep it to yourself" gay that conservatives wish all queer people would adopt. As a result, her life and her relationships are fragile. She moves through life in perpetual fight-or-flight, and the misery she carries inside can only pour outward

Subject-wise, we're in well-trodden territory, but the film finds a way to navigate it that is novel and heartbreaking

The movie makes stellar song choices to play at the gay bar. The score is gorgeous, although it does manage to swallow some scenes — a nitpick that will likely bother me and no one else

The filmmaking is sharp, and the pacing is on point — this isn't an easy watch subject-wise, but the movie won't add to that in any structural way

Rosy McEwan is incredible in this, and I hope this movie leads her to more opportunities 

Check it out when it comes to streaming!

<b>Stray Thoughts</b>
* guided meditation tapes for a mindful wind down — same as hell
* Hearing Margaret Thatcher's voice on TV is so grating
* Color looks gorgeous — I still haven't grown tired of that nostalgic film look
* Pink Rhythm - Melodies  of Love
* New Order - Blue Monday