---
layout: review
title: "House (1985)"
excerpt: "My review of House (1985)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/4l2DU3
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

<i>Soul Man </i>director Steve Minor gives us a story about a house… that hates. A newly separated writer moves into his old family home — the one at which his son went missing — and the house is not having it. The ghost of his aunt shows up to tell him that the house won, that it tricked her

One of those great posters/VHS covers I’d see at Blockbuster, but I would never rent it

The movie is like cartoony family-friendly horror about PTSD. He’s trying to write a book about his time in Vietnam while dealing with a haunted house, and the movie has to make it all fit together, and it doesn’t make sense

Monster/ghost effects look pretty alright — the matted painting of the house on the cliff near the end looks cool. If the movie went broader and more over-the-top with the humor or the gore or the scares, it might be something good. But it does everything so safe and by the book

<b>Stray Thoughts</b>
* Dali painting on the wall. The kid walks in and sees it. “Sick,” he says dismissively
* Norm! He has all the best lines
* The dude cannot wrap his mind around the ghost disappearing in the house. Every time it surprises and confuses him
* He wanted proof that the thing existed. But when he killed it, he cut it up and buried it instead
* His Vietnam flashbacks are so goofy — why would he write a book about any of them?