---
layout: review
title: "Gertrud (1964)"
excerpt: "My review of Gertrud (1964)"
rating: "3.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5g69Aj
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
tags: [criterion-channel, criterion, criterion-challenge-2023, cc2023, 1001-movies, sight-and-sound]
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pXW6q/detail" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Criterion Challenge 2023 | 30/52 | Directed by Carl Dreyer</a></b>

Gertrud sits with her husband, confessing she no longer wants to be his wife. He loves his work, his power, and himself more than her.

<blockquote><i>The man I'm with must be completely mine. I must come before anything else. I don't want to be an occasional plaything.</i></blockquote>

She does not leave straight away. They have to go to a celebration honoring her ex, Gabriel, a renowned poet.

She says she is going to the opera but meets her new lover in the park, a young musician named Erland.

She tells Erland about a dream where she was naked, pursued by dogs.

<blockquote><i>Life is a long, long chain of dreams linked to one another.</i></blockquote>

Gabriel and Gertrud talk at the celebration. Gabriel reveals he went to a party. There, he met a young musician who bragged about his lovers, including his latest conquest, Gertrud.

The artifice breaks down. The cold staging of emotions gives way to real, uncontrollable emotions. Despite the emotional turmoil, the show must continue.

<blockquote><i>I believe in the pleasure of the flesh and the irreparable loneliness of the soul.</i></blockquote>

Gertrud sees a painting depicting a naked woman pursued by dogs.

Love feels like it should be eternal. We carry a sorrow at the thought of its absence. When it goes away, how long before we accept the next move? Which is simpler: experiencing fleeting bouts of love or seeking a profound, all-encompassing love again?

Perhaps let love be done and see what else life offers. How insignificant is that void when we no longer try to fill it?

When everything must be absolute, half-measures feel like violence. We all contain more than one person, and not one outlives love.

In his film, Dreyer focused on the importance of words over visuals. Misunderstandings in conversation drive the scenes, framed with slow images and small performances.

Often, the actors direct their gaze towards an unseen audience. Gertrud seldom makes eye contact, always talking to the air.

Scorsese took inspiration from the contrast between the memories and reality. He wanted that same dichotomy in life vs. the fights in Raging Bull.

This last film by a beloved director presents a challenging experience. He suffered walk-outs and boos at major screenings, but those who stayed praised the movie.

While it's a good movie, I didn't feel a connection to it. I appreciate every technical aspect and thinking about its themes, but I didn't come away with strong feelings.
