---
layout: review
title: "Demons 2 (1986)"
excerpt: "My review of Demons 2 (1986)"
rating: "3.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/57lUhd
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
tags: [shudder, joe-bob]
---

On Sally's 16th birthday, she's throwing a party guaranteed to keep her apartment building up all night. Everyone's gathered around the TV watching a documentary about demons.

When Sally freaks out at her party, she goes to her room to watch the demon show. The demon turns and looks at the camera, inching towards it, breaking through the TV into Sally's room and attacking her.

Sally emerges from her room to blow out the candles. She feels a transformation — her veins pulse. Fingernails split as claws breakthrough. Her teeth fall out and fangs descend from her gums.

The demon attack begins!

This movie rules! Fuck exposition and originality. If it worked for them once, why not repeat it?

#### Stray Thoughts

- I didn't give the movie my full attention when I watched it a few years ago. But I like Demons, so I'm giving this another go.
- The opening credits song fucking rules
- All the 80s home decor makes this movie weirdly cozy
- I love the way the soundtrack starts and stops, like a tape player
- "Panic!" by The Smiths playing at the party was such a welcome surprise
- The demon coming through the TV is the same effect used in Videodrome
- The dog's transformation is so silly — I love it!
- The screeching demon that bursts out of the kid's chest like in Alien is unsettling!
- I wish we got the original ending where the baby turns into a demon and claws out of the mother
- "Rain" by The Cult playing into the end credits — hell yeah
