---
layout: review
title: "Ghost (1990)"
excerpt: "My review of Ghost (1990)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/43tIWZ
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

From the powerhouse director of <i>Airplane!</i> and <i>Rat Race</i> comes an unusual romantic dramedy about two of the hottest people who have ever lived — Patrick Swayze and Demi Moore — getting fucked over by adult Michael Cera —Tony Goldwyn. I guess it’s a twist that was spoiled for me, because I stopped trusting that guy the second he got the MAC Address

Whoopi showing up is when the movie gets interesting to me. Her plus the second half of the movie is very fun and satisfying…

But it takes Demi Moore WAY TOO LONG to get on board, it gets exhausting. Yes, it’s more realistic, but it’s not fun from a movie viewer’s standpoint watching them spend a huge chunk of it trying to prove Sam is a ghost. It’s a discredit to her as an actress by giving her such a passive role

Look, this movie is pretty dumb, but the cheesiness hits me in a comfort place I can’t deny

<b>Stray Thoughts</b>
* Scathing take down of the NYT — “just some little critic with pimples on his ass who flunked out of art school”
* Young Stephen Root!
* Willie’s death is needlessly brutal. He’s a hired gun, he’s not evil
* Carl’s death is also brutal, but dude is cartoonishly evil so…
* But the demons that come to take the bad folks away are creepy! I like it
* Sam using Whoopi’s body is… huh. And Demi is immediately game for this? GAY
* See my sweet boy Patrick being taken up to heaven hits a different place knowing he’s gone IRL :(