---
layout: review
title: "Lamb (2021)"
excerpt: "My review of Lamb (2021)"
rating: "3.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6bQ0eD
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pRFMi/detail" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Hooptober 5.0 | 1/32 | Countries 1/6 | Iceland</a></b>

In an Icelandic snowstorm, a growling breath and heavy step follows a herd of horses. Whatever it is scares the horses as they run into the barn.

From the barn window, an Elkhorn sheep gazes. Others huddle together, watching the door as the heavy steps open it. One sheep wearily steps away from the others and collapses on the ground.

The farmers, María (Noomi Rapace) and her husband, Ingvar (Hilmir Snær Guðnason), stand near the window, listening to Christmas hymns on Radio Reykjavík. Just outside the window, the heavy breath pulses.

Time passes, and the snow melts. Ingvar and their border collie (Panda) go to the barn to sweep and feed the sheep. Later, María comes out to help Ingvar deliver the babies for the pregnant sheep.

One sheep gives birth, but her lamb has some unusual qualities. María and Ingvar care for it and name the lamb Ada.

The movie has a gentle pace — it captures how time moves on a remote farm. It's also a recurring quality of contemporary folk horror that some folks hate. I'm a fan of it.

The photography is gorgeous. Serene and haunted, the landscape is a perfect breeding ground for folklore.

I was nervous about the brother showing up. In one sense, he adds a much-needed dynamic. On the other, parts of his subplot muddle the story.

Noomi Rapace grew up on a farm with sheep and dogs. In this movie, she has to do some uncomfortable tasks, like clipping a newborn's ear and tagging it. It would be challenging to train a new actor on those tasks.

The sheep are so cute! The babies are so small! For Ada, the filmmakers combined an actual lamb, CGI, and practical effects. The result works surprisingly well, with only a few uncanny valley moments.

Panda, the border collie, has the sweetest eyes! She was so gentle with and concerned for the sheep — I cried.

The film doesn't quite stick the landing, but it's not so bad that it takes away from the rest of the movie.
