---
layout: review
title: "Bhoot (2003)"
excerpt: "My review of Bhoot (2003)"
rating: ""
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6fJwBh
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/q7ygw/detail" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Cult Movie Challenge 2016 | 45/52 | Bollywood Horror</a></b>

<blockquote><i>This film of mine is just an attempt to <b>SCARE</b> you and in no way reflects my belief in the <b>SUPERNATURAL</b>. I also caution <b>PREGNANT</b> women and people with <b>WEAK HEARTS</b> to view it at their own <b>RISK</b>.</i>  — Ram Gopal Varma</blockquote>

Vishal Bhatia is looking for an apartment for him and his wife, Swati. The broker reluctantly shows him a cheap duplex — cheap, because the previous resident fell off the building and died.

Vishal meets the apartment owner, Mr. Thakkar, who gives him the full story — that the previous tenant was a woman named Manjeet who committed suicide after killing her son.

Vishal is unbothered by this detail, not believing any superstitions about ghosts. He continues to hide this from Swati, who wouldn’t choose to live there. But as they live there, Swati's behavior changes and she sees dead people everywhere she goes.

Vishal explains it all away as her stupid dreams or her stupid soaps. Or he tells Swati she is stupid. But one night, he finds the watchman murdered. All signs point to Swati as the killer.

The score and sound effects are hilariously overbearing — think Sam Raimi with a Hindi twist. They even see Sam Raimi's <i>Spider-Man</i> in theaters. We hear several lines of dialogue from the movie.

Urmila Matondkar, who plays Swati, gives her all. She's doing well for the material she's acting in.

If you watch this as a comedy, it's pretty incredible. I feel bad because that isn't the intention. I mean, this movie won awards, so I think there's a lens I don't have to watch this movie.
