---
layout: post
title: "Abigail (2024)"
excerpt: "My review of Abigail (2024)"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 3/5

Lambert (Giancarlo Esposito) has hired six criminals, each with a particular specialty, to kidnap a wealthy figure's 12-year-old daughter (Alisha Weir). They put a tracker in her chaperone's car, followed her home, and hit her with a tranquilizer. Once they get her to the getaway van, they take her to the agreed-upon destination: a remote mansion.

Lambert awaits their arrival and gives them the rundown: babysit the girl for 24 hours while Lambert negotiates a $50 million ransom. Meanwhile, the rules are no phones in case of tracking, no names, and no backstories. They assign each person a false name for communication.

Joey (Melissa Barrera) checks on the girl. She takes off the girl's blindfold and loosens her cuffs. Joey pinky-promises the girl that she will keep her safe and not let Frank (Dan Stevens) or the others hurt her. They exchange names: the girl calls herself Abigail.

After they find one of them brutally murdered, the group pieces together the girl's father is one of the most dangerous men in the city. Will they survive the night? Will further secrets unfold? Is the house possibly harboring the most dangerous individual?

The trailer played often at the theater but failed to catch my attention. But I was a fan of the two directors' films <i>Scream V</i> and <i>Ready or Not</i>, so I figured I'd give it a shot. Without seeing the trailer, you might still see the direction.

The script was pretty bland, and it feels like people are peppering in expletives to spice up the weak lines. It's a by-the-book story, making the movie predictable.

But. The cast's performances create a reason to watch the movie by having a blast on-screen.

I like Dan Stevens, and I'm happy to see him in a few horror movies this year — this and <i>Cuckoo</i>.

I liked Melissa Barrera in <i>Scream</i>, but she comes out and shines in this one.

Abigail would've been scarier if they let Alisha Weir talk in her Irish accent. She gives a solid performance — not world-shaking, but good enough to sell her role.

Kevin Durand is the ugliest man alive, and I love seeing his face in anything <b>#Lost</b>

This movie was Angus Cloud's last before his death. He did well because his character is annoying as fuck — I wanted to blame the actor.

The gore was over-the-top. The directors can't end a movie without someone drenched in blood. It may be too much for some people — lots of skin being ripped off and whatnot.

The set was perfect — I love a spoopy old mansion with Gothic shit everywhere.

I'm probably rating it a little high, but I had a good time.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/6iPKDP)
