---
layout: review
title: "The Gift (2000)"
excerpt: "My review of The Gift (2000)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6vP2CP
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pRNg0/detail">Hooptober 4.0 | 20/31 | Raimi</a></b>

<b>Brixton, Georgia</b>
Annie (Cate Blanchett) lays out Zener ESP cards — stars, squares, and waves organized in a grid. People in town visit her to receive psychic readings. She has three sons and lost her husband, Ben, a year ago, whom she still mourns. Her oldest, Mike, has been distant since.

Valerie (Hilary Swank) comes in for a reading. Her abusive husband, Donnie (Keanu Reeves), left bruises on her right eye and lip. Annie tells her to leave but Valerie is afraid Donnie will kill her.

The school principal, Wayne (Greg Kinnear) calls Annie in when Mike gets into another fight. Wayne’s fiancee, Jessica (Katie Holmes), comes by for a visit. Jessica jokingly asks Annie to read her fortune and tell Jessica if she and Wayne will live happily ever after. Time slows down. Annie sees shallow water and Jessica’s muddied feet, but tells them they’ll be fine.

Donnie bangs on her door that night, saying Valerie is in trouble. Annie lets him in, but he suggests Annie is conning Valerie. He shows Annie a voodoo doll he made and threatens her.

The next day, Annie has a vision of her grandmother (Rosemary Harris), who warns of a coming storm and shows her a vision of blood, broken glass, and Jessica.

Billy Bob Thorton worked with writer Tom Epperson to draft a script based on Billy Bob’s mother, who he claimed was <a href="https://web.archive.org/web/20080303205338/http://www.billybobthornton.net/film%20gift.htm">famously psychic</a>.

The script follows a script-writing formula with thematic conversations regarding fate versus free will. The competent cinematography and mystical score keep the ride smooth.

A large ensemble cast does fine with the uninspired content. Everyone’s Southern accent is vague enough that it isn’t too grating — except for Keanu Reeves, who’s never been ace at sustaining a consistent accent. Also, could they not find a child actor to play her youngest — someone who doesn’t stare at the camera every time he delivers a line?

JK Simmons, though… <i>_chef’s kiss_</i>

The visions are the most interesting part of the movie — Cate Blanchett is at her most Galadriel as she wanders through them.

This isn’t a great movie, but it’s not bad overall. Despite its predictability and cliches, it all comes together pretty well.
