---
layout: post
title: "Okja (2017)"
excerpt: "My review of Okja (2017)"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 2.5/5

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/q4PJa/detail">Criterion Challenge 2022 | 13/52 | Genre: Science Fiction</a></b>

<b>New York, 2007</b>
Lucy Mirando is the new CEO of Mirando Corporation.

In her announcement speech, she contrasts herself with her Grandpa Mirando, who exploited the workers, and former CEO Nancy Mirando, Lucy's twin, who Lucy believes was "ignorant of humanity."

Lucy debuts the company's latest innovation: a "super pig" to take over livestock farming.

The company sent 26 of these pigs to the countries where Mirando operates. The company plans a decade-long pig-raising competition.

<b>South Korea, ten years later</b>
Mija is a young girl who lives with her grandfather and their super pig, Okja. Mija and Okja are friends. So, Mija is devastated when Mirando spokesperson Johnny Wilcox comes to declare Okja the best pig and take it back to New York.

Unwilling to let Okja go, Mija works to get Okja back. She accidentally uncovers that Mirando Corporation isn't the eco-friendly company they have claimed.

With the animated lead and fart jokes, this ought to be a children's movie. Tilda Swinton and Jake Gyllenhaal's broad comedic performances further reinforce that notion.

The chronic "fucks" from everyone and graphic slaughterhouse scenes suggest otherwise. Though the film hints at Miyazaki-type magic, the film is not smart enough to let the circumstances tell the story.

Now that I've seen most of Bong Joon-ho's movies, I feel I've missed the joke. I understand the critical acclaim for some of his films, and my dislike is a matter of personal taste. Here, I'm at a loss.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/6ubfCJ)
