---
layout: review
title: "The Evil (1978)"
excerpt: "My review of The Evil (1978)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6lQk5L
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/q7ygw/detail" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Cult Movie Challenge 2016 | 52/52 | TCM Underground</a></b>

A guy hears noises in a house that definitely isn't haunted. He goes into the basement to inspect a noise. He looks in the furnace, and it lights him on fire.

CJ and Caroline bought the house to renovate it and turn it into a rehab center. Caroline senses a presence in the house. The bust turns and looks at her. A white spectral image appears only to her. She's convinced the spirit wants to tell her something.

CJ messes around in the basement and finds a cross holding a door closed. He takes the cross and opens the door. The house shakes. The doors and windows seal close. They're trapped.

<blockquote><i>— The windows won't break, the doors won't open.
— Well, you know static electricity does incredibly weird things sometimes!</i></blockquote>

It's a hell house. They have to appease a spirit or something.

The movie has interpersonal conflicts, but they're paper thin and only there to pad time.

<blockquote><i>Haven't you noticed since the doors shut down, the whole place smells like sulfur?</i></blockquote>

The ghost looks cool once he materializes — all white, including his all-white pupils.

Besides that, a couple of dudes catch fire, and that's about it for the effects. I guess the wind blows a woman's clothes off and a guy sinks into a bog.

It's just so boring. I genuinely don't understand how this made it on the Video Nasties list.
