---
layout: review
title: "Absurd (1981)"
excerpt: "My review of Absurd (1981)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5B2uP1
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pOvfW/detail" title="Hooptober 8.0 | 14/34 | From 1981 3/4" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Hooptober 8.0 | 14/34 | From 1981 3/4</a></b>

<blockquote><i>It's absurd. Completely absurd!</i></blockquote>
The Vatican accidentally let a homicidal super soldier out. Oops!

#### Thoughts / Spoilers

- I love the inappropriate comic font for the opening credits
- Katia's setup is depressing — why does her mom hate her drawing? "You just keep making the same design over and over. It's not right!"
- Barging in with a handful of entrails
- Bikers taunting an old man — what jerks
- This surgery is tedious. The surgeons are just playing around with his guts
- Everyone's gone home to watch "The Rams and the Steelers for the Championship."
- "You like football? American football, that is."
- Surgical drill to the temple — brutal
- "His brain got bigger after the surgery."
- Table saw to the skull —brutal
- "So this is the team, eh? A priest, a detective near retirement, and a young moron rookie of a cop. Terrific, just terrific."
- Everyone is staying home and watching the game, and the movie will not stop reminding me
- The classic tradition of getting into formalwear, eating bowls of spaghetti, and watching football. American football, that is
- You find a dead body, and you send a small child out into the dark?
- Why is Katia strapped down so intensely?
- Putting someone's head in the oven is such a prolonged way to kill someone
- Man, this is a dull third act.
- It feels icky that the most salacious moment is seeing through the bed-ridden teen girl's nightgown.
- Oops, I saw an eyeball after Katia gouged out his eyes
- Good thing Katia knew the back of his neck was his weak spot
- Okay, that's a good final shot
