---
layout: post
title: "The Attic"
excerpt: "My review of The Attic"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 3.5/5

<i>TW // Suicide, Self-Harm, Abuse, Mental Illness</i>

Louise (Carrie Snodgress) is a head librarian in Wichita, Kansas. When not at work, Louise cares for her ailing father, Wendell (Ray Milland), who has limited mobility. Her father is constantly verbally abusive and condescending to Louise. Louise fantasizes about taking revenge on or killing her father.

<blockquote><i>Women. They're all the same: weak, manipulating, vindictive. The only good woman I knew was your poor, dead mother. I'm waiting for some of her to rub off on you.</i></blockquote>

One evening, she has a nervous breakdown at work and makes a fire from some books. Back home, she puts on Super 8 home movies of her and her fiancé, Robert, who left her at the altar nineteen years ago. She cuts her wrists and clings to one of her several stuffed monkey dolls.

After surviving the incident, she resigns from her library job and comes to work to train her new replacement, Emily. Emily is kind to Louise, and the two become friends. Louise confides her fears in Emily, who is curious and compassionate. She tells Emily how she regrets not taking more chances in her life.

One day, Louise and Emily go shopping and see a pet store with a chimp for sale.

<blockquote><i>— I'm not crazy about them myself. Why do you like them?
— Because they'll never betray you like humans do.</i></blockquote>

After Louise and Emily part ways, Emily buys the chimp for Louise, sparking a journey that finally brings the truth to light.

The movie explores parental abuse and possessiveness and how it carries into adulthood. While not subtle, the explored themes are less exploitative as similar genre movies.

Carrie Snodgress gives an empathetic performance as the deeply wounded Louise, elevating the schlocky material beyond mere mockery.

The addition of Emily also gives relief to Louise's otherwise tormented existence. And that Louise can return that support adds such warmth. I nearly cried at Louise's going-away party — it was delightful.

The tone has comedic turns, especially once the chimp comes along. It feels a little like <i>Twin Peaks</i> in how it folds in. However, that may be because Frances Bay makes an appearance.

Even in psychological dramas, protagonists can endure hardship and still find moments of hope and kindness. This isn't a great movie, but it is singular in its approach to genre.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/5SYPnB)
