---
layout: post
title: "Maurice (1987)"
excerpt: "My review of Maurice (1987)"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 4/5

<blockquote><i>Do you realize I would have gone through life half-awake if you'd had the decency to leave me alone?</i></blockquote>

Maurice Hall (James Wilby) meets Clive Durham (Hugh Grant) while attending the University of Cambridge. One night, Clive confesses his love for Maurice — not a brotherly love, but something romantic. Though initially horrified, Maurice reciprocates, and the two start an affair. While Clive is risk-averse, having a social position to consider, Maurice follows his heart, even letting the secret of the relationship get him expelled.

Their relationship worries Clive when the police arrest a mutual friend, Lord Risley (Mark Tandy), for soliciting sex from a soldier. So, Clive breaks things off with Maurice and marries a wealthy woman named Anne.

The film follows the trials of their friendship, as well as Maurice's inner conflict with his sexual identity.

Since the film is a Merchant Ivory production, the sets, costumes, and locations are all meticulous and gorgeous.

The adapted script is brilliant, taking the insular novel by E.M. Forster and turning it into an outward expression of the complex dynamic between Maurice and the world.

Wilby and Grant have tremendous chemistry — their scenes feel passionate and authentic. Wilby also has scenes with Rupert Graves that unveil the truth — they are two straight guys trying to pretend to like what they're doing.

The movie's duration, at 2.5 hours, is somehow insufficient and excessive. Following Maurice's transition into a new chapter, the film abruptly ends, leaving me stunned.

The movie's first half is genuinely perfect — every aspect of the filmmaking felt in harmony, and I believed I was witnessing this story unfold. Again, once Rupert Graves comes around, the illusion breaks.

That such an outspokenly gay movie coming out during the AIDS crisis is so inspiring.

I love so much of this movie, and I'm gutted that it doesn't sustain what it builds. Still, this film is a beautiful achievement that deserves more attention.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/5SErLf)
