---
layout: post
title: "Porno"
excerpt: "My review of Porno"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 1.5/5

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pOK5i/detail">Hooptober 7.0 | 30/32 | film with a movie theater in it</a></b>

<i>CW // Scat, Urine, Blood, Misogyny, Sexual Assault, Homophobia, Genital Mutilation</i>

Two people fuck. Outside, two teens, Abe and Todd, watch. The teens fear being caught, so they run.

They work at a movie theater. Mr. Pike, their boss, leads the employees in a prayer circle. Mr. Pike leaves them to have a movie night after their shift.

A strange older man runs around the theater. They try to get him to leave, but he runs through a wall and opens a hidden doorway. The crew goes in, finding a basement full of old reels. One of the reel cans glows, drawing Abe's attention.

Abe brings the reel upstairs, and they decide to play it for their movie night. Despite the title of the movie, it isn't pornography — it's what a Christian probably imagines a Satanic ritual looks like.

Oops! The film unleashes a succubus with the worst merkin I've seen.

As someone who grew up as a Conservative Christian, some of the world-building feels true, but they heighten it for comedic effect, and it falls flat.

Those familiar with <i>Demons</i> will note the similarities in concept — a film unleashes an evil — but it takes SO LONG for anything to happen.

The movie has a fair bit of nudity, but it feels like it's just going through a checklist — breasts, flaccid penis, butt, check.

The movie has some incredibly graphic genital mutilation, and someone tries to perform first aid on it to mixed results. That's the closest to scary and/or funny the movie gets.

The fake movie posters for <i>Encino Man</i> and <i>A League of Their Own</i> are cheap. Why did they choose movies they couldn't get rights to?

There's a closeted character, and another character outs them without consent. It's treated like the right thing, and it's gross.

You could convince me that Christians made this movie. The message seems to be, "See where sin gets you?"

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/5WbNZ7)
