---
layout: review
title: "The Cat (1992)"
excerpt: "My review of The Cat (1992)"
rating: "4.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6k3bxT
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/rIGbC/detail" title="Cult Movie Challenge 2024 | 17/52 | HK CAT III">Cult Movie Challenge 2024 | 17/52 | HK CAT III</a></b>

<blockquote><i>Curiosity is the finest thing in life.</i></blockquote>
Wisely sits in his house by lamplight. All around him are stacks of books and empty bottles of vodka. He writes an account of three people — two humans and a cat, to be precise — and the stories of folks's encounters with these three, starting with Li Tung.

Li startles awake in the dead of night to the sound of knocking upstairs. The ceiling shakes with erratic movement, dust, and drywall showering down on him — a common occurrence. He grabs an implement and charges upstairs to give them a piece of his mind.

Li bangs on his neighbor's door. The neighbor, an older man, comes to the door and apologizes. Behind his neighbor, a woman picks up a fluffy black cat. Their eyes meet Li's, pulling him into a trance. Only his neighbor waving his bloodied hand in front of Li's face brings him to. Before Li can ask any questions, the neighbor shuts the door.

The following day, Li sees his neighbor, the woman, and the cat leave in a moving van. He goes to the apartment to investigate. The place is empty, except for one room full of bloody newspapers. He finds a pile of cat intestines.

Li, police inspector Wang Chieh-Meh, Wisely, and Wisely's partner Pai So eat crab at Wisely's house. Wisley divulges his theory that the girl and the cat are aliens from another galaxy. The film follows Wisley's investigation as to what the three are doing. He learns about the Star Killer and their intentions to stop it.

From the director of <i>Riki-Oh</i>, the film is a weirdo blend of horror, action, and sci-fi with an expected amount of gore and violence.

The plot is quite loose, so it feels like things just happen for a lot of it. But when a wild scene comes into focus, it's hard not to forgive and enjoy the insanity.

The ending is one of the most batshit things I've seen in my life. It was such a bizarre mixture of earnest emotion and special effects.

This could be a new comfort movie for me.


<i><b>*** Stray Thoughts / Spoilers ***</b></i>
* The cat is so cute and funny! There's a scene where the cat and the woman float around together. It was so comforting, and I can't pinpoint why.
* The restoration looks so good!
* A blended pile of guts reconstitutes into a zombie
* Giant veiny mushroom alien!
* Pai So is sweaty after tennis, and the shot jumps to various parts of her sweating body. It's a brand of horny that I don't recall seeing in another movie.
* Tiny handheld Sony TV! I love 90s electronics.
* So many cute dogs!
* "I've had joy rides with girls, but never with dogs!"
* Grenade in the mouth
* Bloody junkyard cat and dog fight! Inspired choreography.
* Dancing in the stars 😊 
* Slug mushroom has a face!
* The glitter!