---
layout: post
title: "Whisky"
excerpt: "My review of Whisky"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 3/5

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/qBmUY/detail" rel="nofollow">Anti-Criterion Challenge 2024 | 13/52 | Made in a country with land South of the Tropic of Capricorn by a director from that country (Uruguay)</a></b>

<blockquote><i>I'll see you tomorrow, God willing</i></blockquote>Jacobo and Marta are two single and deeply lonely people. Each has their daily routine. Marta works as the head supervisor of Jacobo's sock factory. She also takes care of the minutiae of Jacobo's life, such as helping schedule the Mazeva service for Jacobo's mother, who died a year before.

Jacobo sends a fax about the service to his brother, Herman, in Brazil. Jacobo asks Marta to pretend to be his wife while Herman is in town. Marta agrees to assist without compensation.

Their routine continues day after day as they prepare for Herman's visit. They clean Jacobo's apartment, which has been in shambles since his mother passed. They have pictures together — everything to give the facade of a happy marriage.

Neither Jacobo nor Marta have much in common. They both find it hard to open up to one another. But as Herman stays with them, his outgoing personality allows Marta to discover a part of herself she thought lay dormant. Meanwhile, Jacobo remains resentful of his brother, who got to live life while Jacobo took care of their mother.

I'm not sure what the comedic component of the movie is. "Pretending to be married" has farce written all over it. The execution is anything but. It also tries to draw humor out of Jacobo being Jewish and frugal — fucking depressing.

The performances suit the characters perfectly. Marta is the one who kept me invested in the movie.

Jacobo rejects joy and change in his life. The film shows no sympathy towards him, almost suggesting, "If only he were Herman."

It took me most of the movie to appreciate its singular perspective. I don't love many of the choices it makes. But Marta's journey showcases the way film generates empathy from unexpected places.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/68r4ol)
