---
layout: review
title: "Ghoulies (1985)"
excerpt: "My review of Ghoulies (1985)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/62VJS3
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pPVYg/detail" title="Hooptober 6.0 | 13/32 | Makeup and Special Effects: John Carl Buechler">Hooptober 6.0 | 13/32 | Makeup and Special Effects: John Carl Buechler</a></b>

<i>CW // Blood, Murder, Abuse, Racism</i>

Jonathan's parents were bonafide Satan worshipers. As a baby, his dad, eyes glowing green and whatnot, tried to kill him. His mother did her best to stop him, but could not. It took Wolfgang (Jack Nance!!), one of the acolytes, to rescue the baby.

But Wolfgang could not save Jonathan's mother. His father summoned something evil, which bursts from her chest.

After Jonathan's parents die, Jonathan inherits the house. He and his girlfriend, Rebecca, move in. Wolfgang stays as a caretaker, hoping that Jonathan will not follow in his father's footsteps. While looking through the basement, he finds his father's ritual garb, as well as a book full of rituals.

Rebecca throws a housewarming party, inviting their weirdo friends, including a guy named Mark who "does a Toad Boy routine," whatever that means.

After most of the folks leave, the core friends look for something to do. Jonathan suggests doing a ritual. It looks like nothing happens, but when they go upstairs, a ghoulie manifests.

This is a wacky little thing. It's never quite funny when it means to be, but the absurdity kept me laughing throughout.

John Carl Buechler's ghoulies are pretty lame puppets. But they weren't supposed to be seen in such high definition, and they're slimy little weirdos, so I kind of like them.

The movie never seems to go anywhere in particular, but it never takes itself too seriously.

<b>**_ Stray Thoughts / Spoilers _**</b>

- The green eye effect can't seem to make the pupils point in the same direction, which is pretty funny.
- Rebecca's friend Donna is played by a young Mariska Hargitay!
- I love Jack Nance's eyes. He never knows how to be just chill.
- Jonathan can't help but mutter latin rituals under his breath while having sex with Rebecca.
- So much yelling!
- Mark tickles Donna's tummy as a form of flirting. It works??
- Why does Malcolm turn into a woman and seduce Dick? They make out for a bit before he turns back into himself.
- The tongue!
- Wolfgang!
