---
layout: post
title: "Arcadian (2024)"
excerpt: "My review of Arcadian (2024)"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 3/5

In a near-future, post-apocalyptic world, Paul (Nic Cage) and his 15-year-old sons have holed up in a remote farmhouse. Thomas is handsome and horny, while Joseph is brilliant (aka gay). Since they've been alive, their father has shown them how to survive, prioritizing security over bravery.

Every night, without fail, the creatures that killed off most people try to break into their house. So far, the creatures haven't succeeded.

Thomas has been going to a nearby farm under the presumption of giving them a helping hand. But Paul knows the truth — that the farmer has a daughter named Charlotte whom Thomas goes to see.

One evening, after staying with Charlotte too late into the day, Thomas runs back home, only to fall into a crevasse. When Thomas doesn't return on time, Paul looks for him.

Each of them will face these creatures for the first time.

The movie relies on broad archetypes over any characters, as well as our knowledge of <i>A Quiet Place</i>, <i>It Comes At Night</i>, and the myriad other films of a similar ilk.

It retains that similar understated quiet with explosions of violence. It also makes one innovation that comes later into the story that helps this stand out.

Though it's by the books, Nic Cage and Jaden Martell give outstanding performances. Cage doesn't go full Cage, unfortunately, but it wouldn't have worked here.

The creatures, giving nothing away, are unusual and don't seem thought out beyond the set pieces their stature/abilities provide. A couple of them are baffling and made me snort.

Also, it's way too dark. If I'm in a pitch-black theater and still can't tell what's happening, you've got a lighting problem. I understand why — they want to hide the budget creature effects.

The film's ironic title doesn't have a deeper meaning, just like the movie itself. But that's okay — I still like the movie.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/6gQXJb)
