---
layout: review
title: "Victoria (2015)"
excerpt: "My review of Victoria (2015)"
rating: "3.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/6HGiGN
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/qBmUY/detail" title="Anti-Criterion Challenge 2024 | 25/52 | rafael 🍊’s lonely people in neon cities">Anti-Criterion Challenge 2024 | 25/52 | rafael 🍊’s lonely people in neon cities</a></b>

Pulsing techno. Strobing lights. The vague outlines of bodies dancing. We focus on Victoria, dancing and smiling, occasionally fixing her hair. She goes to the bar to order a Schnapps, using English to speak to the German bartender. She's in Berlin but doesn't speak German.

As she heads to the bathrooms, some boys ask her if the club is good. She smiles politely and works past them to get to her bike outside. The boys introduce themselves and offer her a ride in a car that isn't theirs. The owner chases them off, and they walk with her as she rides.

Victoria is from Madrid and has been living in Berlin for three months. She doesn't know anyone. They go into a shop Sonne claims is his and take some beer while the shopkeep sleeps. Some men approach them, and Boxer has to send them off. Victoria tries to get to the cafe to open, but the boys keep pulling her in.

We follow Victoria for the next two hours as she learns about the boys, their past, and an important plan they've made that day. We also learn about Victoria and the life she left behind. But we may never understand why she is so reckless.

The film is one continuous shot. No cuts, 2.5 hours. It took them three takes to get the energy right. The way the movie progresses, the single take keeps the momentum and tension high. I don't think it's essential, but it doesn't feel like (just) a gimmick.

More importantly, the performances are stellar. The script is loose, and the actors improvise most of the dialogue. As a result, the conversations, the flirtations, and the misdirects all feel organic.

Laia Costa, who plays Victoria, is incredible. I need to see her in more things.

Franz Rogowski plays a bag of bad vibes, as per usual.

The film accomplishes some dramatic irony by translating the German that Victoria doesn't understand, so we catch on to the details before she does.

Nils Frahm's piano-driven score is perfect — I didn't know he did scores!

The night city vibes are off the charts (until they aren't). 

Phew, this movie has some moments that had my heart racing! I don't think all of it works, but it has some outstanding moments. If I'm being honest, I'd rather watch a movie that stays like the first act.