---
layout: review
title: "Frogs (1972)"
excerpt: "My review of Frogs (1972)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5McE3F
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie_review

---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/rIGbC/detail">Cult Movie Challenge 2024 | 6/52 | Killer Animals</a></b>

Pickett Smith (Sam Elliott) rides through the swamp in a canoe, taking pictures of the wildlife — lizards, crocodiles, and FROGS (as the title card says). The churning soundtrack suggests danger at every corner.

As he makes his way onto the lake, Clint Crocket and his sister, Karen, motorboat past Pickett, accidentally flipping over his canoe. They pick him up and tow his canoe to the dock.

Jason Crocket (Ray Milland) watches from the yard with his binoculars, angry at Pickett for intruding and for "illegally" taking pictures on his land. Still, Clint and Karen invite Pickett to lunch.

The vibration of frogs generates a steady din as they walk the Crocket estate. Jason has sent Grover out to take care of the exploding population. Pickett assures them it's natural for frogs to have these seasons and that they should be gone by next year. But the family is impatient, unable to sleep.

Jason asks Pickett to see if he can get in touch with Grover. Jason offers Pickett a gun to take. Picket scans Jason's animal trophies — lion heads and whatnot — and says,

<blockquote><i>No, sir, I don't think a stuffed bullfrog would add a thing.</i>

Back in the swamp, Pickett finds dead animals — birds, frogs, and snakes every few feet. Pickett finds a Jeep out there, along with Grover's dead body. He turns it over to find Grover's face torn into and rotted.

When Pickett reports back to Jason, they hear thumps outside. Massive frogs slap against the window.

The film is an unsubtle antipollution film and more than hints at the rich's role in it:

<blockquote><i>— Karen: You make us sound like the worst of the ugly rich.
— Jason: We are the ugly rich.
— Iris: Well, we're entitled to be ugly, Karen. God knows we pay enough taxes. Daddy, did you know the government is forcing us to put strainers on the paper mill?
— Jason: It's called antipollution control, Iris.
— Iris: Oh, what's the difference what it's called? It costs millions. And our dividends will be shot to hell.</i></blockquote>

When Pickett and Jason try to come up with a solution, Pickett states the thesis of the movie:

<blockquote><i>— I'm sure I can get the state to spray some pesticides.
— Yes, sir, I'm sure you can. You can kill a hell of a lot of other things, too.
— Mr. Smith, that is where you and I part company. I still believe man is master of the world.
— Does that mean he can't live in harmony with the rest of it?
— You call that horrible racket out there harmonious?
— Mr. Crockett, I know it sounds strange as hell but what if nature were trying to get back at us?</i></blockquote>

The interpersonal drama isn't all that interesting but reinforces the selfish, self-involved nature of the Crocket family. It feels a bit like diet Succession.

The movie has terrific animal footage, so if you like cute little reptile guys, there's a lot here for you.

This isn't brilliant, and often silly, but it knows what it's doing.

<b>*** Stray Thoughts / Spoilers ***</b>
* Two named black women characters who chat and enjoy each other's company?
* Jason shoots a snake off a chandelier with a handgun. He doesn't break the chandelier or anything!
* Of course, Karen and Pickett have to form a romantic relationship
* Sam Elliott sure is handsome
* Michael shoots himself in the leg, and tarantulas come for him
* Iris HAS to go butterfly hunting.
* I don't understand Jason's insistence on everything staying as it is. Feels like a half-hearted attempt at stubborn anti-pollutioneer.
* The animated frog at the end is cute. Literally the only time you see a frog attacking anyone