---
layout: post
title: "Djinn"
excerpt: "My review of Djinn"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 2/5

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pRFMi/detail">Hooptober 5.0 | 30/32 | Tobe Hooper 2/2</a></b>

<blockquote><i>When Allah created the heavens and earth, he created Humans from clay and Angels from light. But he created another being from fire: Djinn. Allah has separated Man from Djinn. But sometimes, their worlds come together, and this always causes great suffering.</i></blockquote>

Khalid and Salama stand at a small grave marker in a New York cemetery. Born June 6, 2012. Died October 12, 2012. A teddy bear sits on the corner of the marker, soaking up the pouring rain.

Underneath a nearby tree is a woman draped in black, her body and face covered. They step into their cab. Khalid glances around. The woman is nowhere to be seen.

A year later, Salama believes the child’s death was her fault and cannot get over it. The therapist tells her that returning home might help, suggesting that Selema is getting in her way (??).

So she and Khalid move to Ras al-Khaimah, a village Djinn supposedly took over.

Developers financed a high-rise apartment, into which Khalid and Salama moved.

The locals tell of a djinn who had a half-human, half-djinn child. The djinn looks for her baby everywhere. Salama believes her neighbors are not human and sees weird shit on security cameras.

We need to acknowledge that this isn’t Tobe Hooper’s film. Yes, he made it with Abu Dhabi money, but they did not like the final product and redid the movie.

The djinn effect is pretty creepy — it has similar vibes to J-horror ghosts with erratic movement.

The plot feels too familiar and safe to enjoy. It isn’t bad — I just couldn’t find an entry point.

The film represents Hooper’s career — interference and budget issues that reflect poorly on the director.

Folks will forever underrate Tobe Hooper, but this film isn’t an argument in his favor.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/6nzOTl)
