---
layout: review
title: "Gidget (1959)"
excerpt: "My review of Gidget (1959)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/5T5uVL
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/q7ygw/detail">Cult Movie Challenge 2016 | 27/52 | Beach Party</a></b>

<i>TW // slurs regarding dwarfism, misogyny, pedophilia</i>

Francine (Sandra Dee) is on summer break. Pattie and B.L. want to go on a manhunt, but Francine wants to hang out with her friends. She reluctantly follows her friends to the beach, where they instantly spot a group of boys to make a move on.

The score gives a "whomp whomp" as Francine undresses to her bathing suit and reveals that she has small breasts. They toss a ball around to draw the boys's attention. The ball rolls to Moondoggie (James Darren), who considers approaching. His friends warn him against chasing "jailbait."

The boys are surfers who are looking for some bitchin' waves, bro. The girls abandon Francine, so she puts on her snorkeling gear and goes swimming. She gets caught in sea kelp, so Moondoggie paddles over to help her.

<blockquote><i>Hold on for your life, we're gonna shoot the curl</i></blockquote>

With Francine on the board, Moondoggie catches a wave to bring them inland. The big kick hits Francine, and she wants to take up surfing. She gets the money from her parents for a cheap board and meets up with the boys. Though the beach bums are unsure, they welcome her in, giving her the nickname "Gidget," meaning "girl midget."

This movie was Sandra Dee's breakthrough. It's also the movie that helped kick off the beach party movie trend and helped mainstream surfing in the USA. By extension, this is one of the first teen comedies.

The film is breezy and fun. It touches lightly on adolescent perspectives of the world, avoiding the typical condescension of 1950s filmmakers. That sincerity and respect led to the film's success and what so many beach party clones missed.

The movie has jokes, too! Francine is smart and bookish, so she gets some funny quips throughout.

<blockquote><i>Gee, this is a real den of iniquity, ain’t it?</i></blockquote>

The ColumbiaColor is rich and attractive, giving the whole movie a pleasant warmth.

Sandra Dee is perfect as the teenage tomboy. It probably helps that the actress was her character's age.

Thank god Elvis was in the Army when this came out — James Darren has the handsome charm to pull off Moondoggie's attitude.

Darren's character is supposed to be younger than the actor, but watching a 16- and 23-year-old flirt feels weird. Different times and whatnot, but still. She also kisses a dude in his 30s.

It's social politics are dated, but it's charms are timeless.
