---
layout: review
title: "Jug Face (2013)"
excerpt: "My review of Jug Face (2013)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/9eqQOn
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/BQGCY/detail" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Oh My Horror 2025 | 13/52 | Cosmic Horror</a></b>

Ada runs through the woods. Her brother, Jessaby, calls out for her. When he finds her, he overtakes her and pins her to the ground. Through some negotiation, the two have sex. In a shed, hands mold clay on a wheel. The water in the pit trembles. As Ada and Jessaby have sex, the hands form a clay jug, as well as a face. The hands pull out to a man, Dawai, who puts the jug in a kiln. A scree from the woods hits Dawai, turning his eyes white.

Back home, Ada learns that she will be joined to Bodey Jenkins on the next full moon. Bodey will expect Ada to be a virgin. Ada asks to go to the pit to pray. Instead, she goes to Dawai's shed. Ada sees the kiln running. She pulls out the jug and sees the face carved into it, which is hers. Frightened, she buries the jug.

The next day, she tells her father that she's worried about her joining with Bodey. Her father thinks it's because she might not bear children, and he assures her that the pit will make it right, as it always does. While washing clothes at the river, Ada collapses in a vision, where she sees herself burying the jug and a creature murdering Eileen—the creature from the pit.

What is the pit, and how does it make things right? What does the jug face mean? How will Ada pull through her pregnancy with the joining fast approaching?

If you can't tell by the summary, this film is deeply fucked up. The premise is a wild one. The film effectively pulls you into its world with its atmosphere and solid performances. The gore is sufficiently gross for the stuff it pulls.

The movie doesn't know how to handle the constraints it puts on the story. It never gets bad, but it gets less interesting as it goes. I won't say more to avoid spoilers.

Still, there's enough here that I like despite its flaws.
