---
layout: review
title: "Run (2020)"
excerpt: "My review of Run (2020)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/8vOawf
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/pRQY0/detail">Hoop-Tober | 22/31</a></b>

Diane gives birth to a premature baby, whom she names Chloe. Growing up, Chloe has arrhythmia, hemochromatosis, asthma, diabetes, and leg paralysis. Chloe uses a wheelchair and takes an army of meds. Diane has homeschooled Chloe her whole life.

One day, Diane returns home with groceries and gets a call, leaving the grocery bags behind. Chloe rummages through for chocolates but finds green pills prescribed to her mother.  That night, Diane laments that one of Chloe's drugs has been discontinued and that she picked up a replacement. In Chloe's cup of pills is one of the green pills. She confronts her mom about it, but her mom assures Chloe she is mistaken.

Chloe thinks her mom might be lying, but she's unsure why. A seed planted, she researches further. But, with no internet or cell phone access, that may be more difficult than she thinks.

This movie blew up on TikTok, where clips played that revealed key plot points. I think it's clear where the movie is heading, but I'll avoid spoilers regardless.

Actress Kiera Allen, who plays Chloe, is pretty great in this. She subtly mirrors Sarah Paulson's behaviors, making it feel like this is the person she spends all her time around. Also, she's a wheelchair user IRL, so she pulls off some sharp blocking and makes the movie feel all the more grounded.

The first act is where this movie excels. We know the beats it intends to take, and the movie deftly steps through them. After that, when everyone knows what's happening, the film has difficulty figuring out where to go and how to sustain the tension for another hour. It doesn't fall apart, but it becomes so by the book that it's hard to stay engaged.

Still, the performances carry the audience to the finish line.
