---
layout: review
title: "Wolf Man (2025)"
excerpt: "My review of Wolf Man (2025)"
rating: "2.5"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/8ytaft
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

Blake's father, Grady, instilled in him a sense of survival—so much so that he never showed his son any kindness, only righteous anger about safety and protection. Local legend hints at a regional virus that can be contracted through animals. The legend is that it turns men into wolves.

As Blake grew up, he became Charlotte's husband and a father to Ginger. Blake has an anger problem, but he's aware of it and is trying to work through it. Still, it is causing a strain on his marriage.

One day, he receives a letter that his father, who went missing years ago, has been pronounced dead. So, to try to mend the family back together, Blake takes them to his childhood home in Oregon to gather his father's things. What they discover will forever change their family.

Leigh Whannell directed <i>The Invisible Man</i> in 2020. It is a tremendous and promising horror flick. The film utilizes slick cinematography and effects to convey perspective and presence, bringing the Invisible Man to life for a contemporary audience.

Here, it's clear that Whannell does not have the same affinity for the Wolf Man character. We get top-notch set pieces and special effects, but they fit awkwardly between a slow, poorly lit story. The metaphor of the Wolf Man and anger is obvious, but the film isn't sure you're smart enough to pick up on it, so it goes to enormous lengths to explain what we're supposed to think.

Christopher Abbott is solid, although once he starts transforming, the film doesn't give him much to do except pop that top. Which, of course, he does.

Julia Garner is absurdly flat in this. I've never seen her where I didn't think she at least brought something to the table. Here, she is the weakest link by a mile. She picks up near the end when things heat up, but I could not believe she ever loved or had a kid with Christopher Abbott.

I saw this movie with someone who had a great time. She wanted a creature feature, and she got a creature feature. While I share some of her enthusiasm for some of the filmmaking, the product, on the whole, left me feeling like I got the cheapest rendition of this story they could conceive of.

I'm glad I saw it in theaters. You could have a decent time there. But once it hits streaming, this one will fizzle out.
