---
layout: review
title: "Demonia (1990)"
excerpt: "My review of Demonia (1990)"
rating: "3.0"
letterboxd_url: https://boxd.it/9iLpwf
mst3k: false
rifftrax: false
category: movie-review
---

<b><a href="https://boxd.it/q7TYk" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Cult Movie Challenge 2017 | 19/52 | Nunsploitation</a></b>

#### Sicily 1486

Five crucifixes line the walls of a chamber. In the center is a porthole that looks down into a pile of bones. Pagan and esoteric symbols line the walls. A village mob drags five nuns into the chamber against their will, binding them to the crucifixes. Once bound, they hammer nails into each of their chests, killing them, and leave their bodies in the chamber.

#### Toronto 1990

Four people sit around a table holding a seance. Sweat stains their faces, each in a trance. Liza opens her eyes, seeing the tortured nuns before fainting. She awakens under the care of archaeologist Professor Evans, who chastises her for attending the seance. The two lead a survey team to Ancient Greek ruins in Santa Rosalia, Sicily. On a hill overlooking the ruins is a centuries-old monastery. Liza leaves the dig and investigates, but Paul catches up so he can make fun of her. Liza feels as though something is still living inside.

The mayor of Santa Rosalia, Mr. Buscemi, visits the dig, warning them of the locals' aversion to the dig. They believe the dead should be allowed to rest in peace. Others in the area confirm that the locals will kill to preserve whatever secrets the monastery keeps. So, what does Liza do? She enters the monastery and finds the walls lined with remains, bound and contorted. In her mind, Liza sees the tortured nuns hidden behind a fresco. She breaks down the walls, finding the remains of the crucified nuns.

If only Liza knew what she had unleashed on all of them. What secrets may undo what she's done? Or is it too late for all of them?

Depending on who you ask, Demonia is either the last great Fulci or the beginning of the end. It carries many of his trademarks: a woman dedicated to the truth, a manipulative man to foil her and gross-out gore and visuals.

The film contrasts the Dark Ages with classical antiquity. Paul is obsessed with light, enlightenment, and reason, whereas Liz finds the religious, spiritual, and supernatural compelling.

The first act is pretty compelling, but the second act goes into vibe territory—lots of whistful staring off, walking about, and dreams. Still, we get a wild cat attack, a baby being set on fire, and plenty more.

The worst part of the movie is when they have singalongs around the fire. It happens more than once, and it's just tedious. It drives Liza insane, too. Just learn a third chord, dude!

Fulci appears as the police inspector. I love the gruff voice of whoever dubbed him.

While this isn't Fulci at his most cuckoo, it's still sufficiently deranged and entertaining.
