---
layout: post
title: "Assholes (2017)"
excerpt: "My review of Assholes (2017)"
category: movie_review

---

**Rating:** 1.5/5

Adah is a recovering drug addict in therapy, ranting about how much she hates sober people and doesn't relate to them. In the process, she's lonely and unable to find anyone to have sex with. Her brother, Adam, doesn't give a shit about her, so she worries that everyone will be like him—namely, an asshole.

Cut to Adam showing his friend, Aaron, his underwear, worried about the discharge in it because he had unprotected sex recently. His partner said she was clean, and Adam believes that women don't lie, including his mother. He also thinks his neighbor hates him because he's white.

Adah and Adam get together. A herpes sore is forming on Adam's lip. He takes a hit off a bong, then offers it to Adah, who is fiddling with a pocket knife. She reminds him she's sober, but he insists in that relentless brother sort of way. So, she camps on the ground, taking rip after rip off the bong. She finds her brother sleeping and holds the pocket knife over him.

Aaron, also a recovering drug addict, has an obsession with the human rectum and pornography depicting violent sex with it. He knows it's a problem, so he sees his therapist about it—one who is also Adah's therapist. The two meet up after the session, and they relapse on poppers and start dating.

<blockquote><i>Oh god, look at that great view of the Olive Garden.</i></blockquote>It turns out I already had Peter Vack's other movie on my watchlist, so let's get this over with…

This film unambiguously depicts untreated STDs on faces and genitals, and that's just the first 20 minutes. The actors use the n-word, r-word, and f-slur freely. It's also fixated on gender essentialism viewed through a psychoanalytic lens.

Both this and <a href="https://boxd.it/agw8uh" rel="nofollow">www.RachaelOrmont.com</a> seem to function first and foremost as acting vehicles for Betsey Brown, Peter Back's sister. She commits so fully to every bit that I feel sorry for her being in this movie. And it's just super weird the shit he films his sister doing.

It's also wild that their parents play themselves in these movies. Kudos to having such supportive parents, I suppose.

Adam's Jet Fuel poster is pretty good, though. Every poster in his house is a 9/11 joke. Once in a blue moon, there's a joke that makes me laugh.

<blockquote><i>See, now that's phallic, right?</i></blockquote>This movie feels like it's an eternity long.

<hr>

[See Review on Letterboxd](https://boxd.it/ah3ItP)
